#summary Configuration of dbmigrate

= Introduction =

If you need to understand the configuration details of a database migration project, this side is for you. Mostly you just add new up-.sql files or up-.groovy scripts in the scripts directory without the need to edit the configurations. You can download *dbmigrate-example-dist.zip* which is a completly preconfigured example project.

If you check out the sources from SVN, you can refer to the *test cases* for the classes you need to give you some some hints about features and usage. The *!JavaDoc* of dbmigrate might be useful as well.

Some of the classes in dbmigrate have a startable *main()* method. They should print a usage description to the console when invoked with inadequate parameters.

= Usage !AutoMigrationTool =
!AutoMigrationTool is a class with a main()-method. You need the JDBC driver and some jars (refer to lib directory in dbmigrate-example-dist.zip) in the classpath.

{{{
Don't forget to create a backup of your database before using the migration tool!
}}}

_usage: java com.agimatec.dbmigrate.!AutoMigrationTool -help -sim true|yes|false -conf conf/migration.xml_ -script aScript -op operationName operationParameter

|| Parameter  || Description || 
|| -sim || -sim true: simulation mode ON. no scripts will be executed. the logger only prints the script names that the programm would  execute. This is for testing what will happen. -sim false: simulation mode OFF (default). Caution: this is the real migration mode that could modify the database. || 
|| -conf || default = -conf migration.xml. Name of the main configuration file to use. || 
|| -help || show help only || 
|| -script || optional, multiple occurrence supported. name of a script-file (sql, groovy, xml) with operations. tool will execute the given file(s) only!||
|| -op || optional, multiple occurrence supported. the operation in the same syntax as in a xml-script. tool will execute the given operation(s) only! || 
|| -exit || -exit false: do not exit JVM with System.exit() after migration. The default is "true", but this option improves the integration into a maven pom and other Java processes, that want to call dbmigrate via its main() method ||

== Examples ==
{{{
java com.agimatec.dbmigrate.AutoMigrationTool -conf upgrade.xml

java com.agimatec.dbmigrate.AutoMigrationTool -conf setup.xml

java com.agimatec.dbmigrate.AutoMigrationTool -conf upgrade.xml -script up-2.1.26.sql -script up-2.1.35_functions.xml

java com.agimatec.dbmigrate.AutoMigrationTool -conf setup.xml -op execSQLScript plsql-history-session-spec.sql -op execSQLScript plsql-history-session-body.sql

}}}

= Main configuration file =
  * [DBMigrateConfigFile Main configuration file]
  * [DBMigrateJdbcConfig JdbcConfig]
  * [DBMigrateSqlScript SQL scripts]
  * [DBMigrateXmlScript XML scripts]
  * [DBMigrateGroovyScript groovy scripts]
  * [DBMigrateMaven maven integration]
  * [DBMigrateSpring spring integration]