#summary Tool to generate files with freemarker for a catalogdescription and a history configuration

= Introduction =


== Options ==
  * -help  (optional) print help
  * -conf  (optional) name of configuration file, default is historyConfig.xml
  * -nconf (optional) use NO configuration file
  * -nout  (optional) do NOT write a default output file (let templates handle output file names)
  * -catalog (required) path of catalog file to read (xml or dump)
  * -ftldir  (optional) default: templates. Base directory with .ftl templates (in subdirs)
  * -dbms  (required) subdirs of ftldir with database-specific templates, e.g. oracle, postgres
  * -ftl (required) can appear multiple times. the template base name (without .ftl suffix)
  * -destdir (optional) default: target. Directory to write output files to.

= Example =

The example syntax demonstrates the invocation of the HistoryGeneratorTool from the InvokerTool with ant (or the maven-antrun-plugin). You can imagine the native java call, can't you?

{{{
<java fork="true" failonerror="true"
   classname="com.agimatec.database.InvokerTool"
   classpathref="maven.compile.classpath">
 <jvmarg value="-Dfile.encoding=UTF-8"/>
               
 <arg line="{ com.agimatec.dbhistory.HistoryGeneratorTool "/>
 <arg line="-conf historyconfig.xml"/>
 <arg line="-catalog target/my-catalog-postgres.xml"/>
 <arg line="-dbms postgres -destdir postgres/setup "/>
 <arg line="-ftldir templates"/>
 <arg line="-ftl history-schema -ftl history-triggers }"/>
</java>
}}}

This generates the history-schema.sql and the history-triggers.sql file for the catalog "my-catalog-postgres.xml".

To do the same for oracle, just use {{{-dbms oracle}}} instead and provide the catalog of your oracle database.